ADDECHO(1)				addecho Manual						ADDECHO(1)  
                                                                                                                    
NAME
        addecho - adds an echoed version of input mono WAV sound file to output mono WAV sound file


SYNOPSIS
        addecho [-d delay] [-v volume_scale] sourcewav destwav


DESCRIPTION
        The addecho function takes two mono WAV sound files and adds an echoed version of the sound from one to the other.
        The echoed version is the audio in the input mono WAV sound file with an echo effect; a recurring but quieter sound.
                
        The following options are available:


        -d delay
                This specifies the number of samples the echo must delay in the output file. The program uses a default value of 8000 if this option is not provided. Note that the sampling rate for the files must be 22050 to avoid unexpected behaviour. For delay = 8000, the echo will start at 8000 / 22050 = 0.3628 seconds after the sound starts. This value must be greater than 0.


        -v volume_scale
                This indicates the factor to scale the volume at each echo. If not provided, the program uses a default value of 4. For volume_scale = 4 means to divide the volume of the original sound by 4 when producing the echo. This value must be greater than 0.


The following arguments are available:                                                                                                                                                                            
 
        -sourcewav
                The path to the source mono sound WAV file from which the audio is extracted and echoed. This is a required argument; the program will crash if no value is sent for sourcewav.


        -destwav
                 The path to the destination mono sound WAV file where the echoed sound is copied. This is also a required argument; the program will crash if no value is sent for destwav.


RETURN VALUES
        The function returns an indicator integer that takes one of two values, 0 or 1. The 0 indicates that the function was executed with no errors. The 1 indicates that the function could not execute fully and an error has been thrown.


EXAMPLES
        addecho -d 12000 -v 4 door.wav door_12000_4.wav
                Save an echoed version of door.wav with a delay of 12000 samples and volume scaled down by 4 in door_12000_4.wav
        
        addecho -v 2 door.wav door_8000_2.wav
                Save an echoed version of door.wav with a default delay of 8000 samples and volume scaled down by 2 in door_8000_2.wav
        
WARNINGS
	Sending an invalid value for delay and volume scale, i.e., either or both less than 0, will result in a program crash. Additionally, providing an invalid argument, such as sending "-b bass," will lead to a program crash. Failure to specify paths for input and output files will also cause a crash, and if either path does not lead to a readable/writable, or existing file, the program will crash. 
More specific to implementation: If the program cannot write the header of the input mono WAV sound file to the output file, it will crash. Furthermore, any failure to read or write a sample will result in a program crash. 
	Lastly, any difficulties in closing files will lead to a program crash.


BUGS
        The program will accept the path to a non-empty mono WAV sound file for the destwav argument. This can lead to unexpected behaviour, because the program never checks if the file is empty or not.